---
title: Delta V Conference - Day 2!
date: 2018-05-11 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- '2018'
comments: true
toc: true
image:
  feature: "../uploads/deltav_hosts2.jpg"
excerpt: Delta V Conference is a new two-day, single-track web performance conference
  in London, hosted by me, Perry Dyball and Jo Franchetti. Here's my summary of the fantastic content from our lovely speakers on day two.
layout: post
---

## Tammy Everts - Hunting the Unicorn

Tammy started researching user experience on the web in a laboratory setting - measuring individuals as they used websites. Now she works with SpeedCurve trying to connect the dots between real people and the stream of data being collected from Real User Monitoring.

> How do we scale empathy?

As we collect millions or billions of user experience data points, how do we remind ourselves that there are real people on the other end of the data?

The average web user believes that they waste <b>two days a year</b> waiting for web pages to load.

We know that slow sites suck, but how do we define <em>slow</em> and how do we define <em>suck</em>? We are perception brokers. But perceptions are fluid and, well, perceptual. How can we measure something so dynamic?

Our traditional web performance metrics like start render, page load, speed index do not help us to measure perception!

The best UX metric needs to correlate to what users actually see, it needs to be easy to use and work out-of-the box in browsers, it should recognise that not all pixels and page elements are equal and should be customisable based on our knowledge of our sites.

<b>First meaningful paint (FMP)</b> - times the paint after which the biggest above-the-fold layout change has happened or when web fonts are loaded, whichever comes later. Available in Chrome.

<b>Time to first interactive (TTFI)</b> - when the page is first expected to be usable and will respond quickly to user interactions. Available in WebPageTest and mPulse.

<b>Hero rendering times</b> - the time at which the largest image, largest background image and top-level heading render.

To help work out the best metrics, SpeedCurve created a [test page](http://lab.speedcurve.com/rendering/picker.php) where you can see what metric correlates best with your perception of page load. The results unsurprisingly show that there is no metric that works for all sites, nor one that works for all people.

<b>Custom metrics</b> are the only way to measure what you know is important to your page, for your users. E.g. time-to-first-scroll, time to product image. Unfortunately these aren't necessary accessible or easy to use.

Whatever you measure:
1. Know your most meaningful metrics
2. Track them with synthetic and RUM
3. Don't focus on averages and medians
4. Set goals / budgets
5. Make yourself accountable with alerts and reports
6. Mind regressions

## Jeremy Keith - What is a progressive web app?

There is a lot of confusion and misinformation about what progressive web apps (PWAs) are. They do not require a single-page application JavaScript framework!

